[MUSIC]
So, so far we've been talking
about the serial interface,
using it to send data from
the Arduino to the host.
But it can be used in the opposite
direction, so we'll talk about that.
So that can be useful a lot of times.
To be able to take data at the host,
and sent it to the Arduino.
It's great for user interfaces right?
If you want to send commands manually,
you type in a command and
have the Arduino do something
in response to your command.
You might use a serial interface, want to
type something and send it to the Arduino.
So the way you do that is, again,
you do it through the serial monitor.
The serial monitor,
you can see up here is at the top of it,
right now I'm just showing the top
of that serial monitor window.
At the top is a little entry
area when you enter text and
click on send, so you type some kind
of text, some type of characters,
you click on send, and that data is
sent via serial over to the Arduino.
So, you can use a serial monitor to
send data as well as receive data.
So, when data is sent, it goes into
a buffer in the Arduino until it's red,
because maybe when you send data, the
Arduino might not immediately receive it.
When it receives the data, when it wants
to read the data, depends on the code.
Maybe the code's busy doing
something else when you do the send.
But, the data, it's held inside
a buffer inside the Arduino
until the code is ready to actually
read the data out of that buffer.
So there's a buffer in the Arduino,
a certain size, where data can
sort of be held temporarily.
Now, there's a function in the serial
library called Serial.available
that is used to see how many
bytes are waiting in the buffer.
And you need this because again, this is
sort of a synchronization issue between
the microcontroller and the human,
or, not necessarily human.
Because from the point
of view of the Arduino,
it could be receiving data from a human
through the serial monitor, but
it might be receiving data
from another microcontroller.
Right?
Who knows where it's receiving data from.
But when it's receiving data, it can't
just read data, if no data is available.
So typically before the Arduino
tries to rad the data,
it should check to see if
the data is available.
So it calls this function called serial
data available, which will return
how much data is available in
the buffer waiting to be read.
Here's an example.
int bytenum = Serial.available(); and
it just simply returns the number of bytes
that are available in the buffer,
waiting to be read.
So, when the Arduino wants to
read a byte out of the buffer,
from the serial communication interface,
it's called Serial.read.
So inside your code,
you call Serial.read, reads one byte
from that buffer, that receiving buffer.
So in this case, int bval = Serial.read.
And bval will be assigned
to whatever that byte is.
Notice that bval is an integer,
not a byte.
Integer is actually bigger than a byte.
The reason why it needs to be bigger than
a byte is because it also has to have
the option of returning a -1.
A byte can't have it be a -1.
It has to have the option of returning
a -1, if no data is available.
So, in addition to reading one byte,
you could read many bytes at a time.
So, Serial.read will read one byte,
but you might wanna read many bytes.
If you read many bytes,
you'd call Serial.readBytes.
That reads several bytes out of that
buffer, that transmission receiving
buffer, but it writes those bites into a
new buffer that the programmer specifies.
So, one of the arguments of read bites
is gonna be the name of the buffer
that you want the data to go into.
So, read bites will read out of
the built-in receiving buffer, and
write those bytes into the buffer that
you specify, so you can access it later.
As an example,
let's say I say char buff [10].
So that gives me a buffer called buff,
which is 10 characters long or
10 bytes long.
So it can fit 10 bytes.
Then I call serial.readBytes and I give it
two arguments, buff which is the name of
the buffer I just created, and 10 which
is the number of bytes that I wanna read.
And what readBytes will do is read 10
bytes out of the receiving buffer and
place them into buff,
the buffer that I specify.
I can access that buffer later and
do things with the data.
Thank you.
[MUSIC]